---
layout: default
title:  "Starting"
date:   2019-04-18
category: [DnD5e Application]
---

# {{page.title}}

## What is this?

Its a DnD 5e app I'm developing, mostly for my wife, to track character sheet stats and do most of the heavy lifting for running a character (at least as far as things can be calculated) automatically. For now I'm mostly worried about just getting all the data methods and persistence right. She is notoriously bad at hitting the save button, so the idea here is to just persist historical records of changes such that *everything* will save.

## Basic Concepts

- Allow for basic input/output of variable stats.
- Allow for easy calculation of dependent stats.
- Allow for easy levelling.
- Persist everything!
- Allow for easy reverting to an earlier version.
- Make class management easy by allowing features to be selected and the sheet to modify itself based on those choices.

## Stretch Goals

- Classes other than Rogue (her current class).
- Longer sections, such as a way to use something like markdown for session logs and back story.
- Parts of the game other than just the character sheet.

## Learning Objectives

First of all I think it should go without saying that if you're doing a home programming project you should probably be doing two things:

1. Learning
2. Having Fun

With that in mind I think this will be a good project to do a few things for me:

- WPF fundamentals and the MVVM design pattern.
- "Full-Stack" development (although the back-end will be light and local) and the concerns that go along with it.
- Making use of lean calls for updates. The idea is that on every change we'll just persist it by calling to the database in an update table for that entity and persist the field name and the updated value. In this way we can do a few things:
  - Not worry about her forgetting the save button....
  - Have extremely granular historical information both about the sheet as a whole, but also for each editable field.
- Learn some UI/UX design stuff. I'm mostly going for function first, but I think this will end up being a part of it.