---
layout: default
title:  "Week 9-10 Writeup"
date:   2019-03-11
category: [Defense Against the Dark Arts]

---

# {{page.title}}

#### [{{page.category}}](/blog/#{{page.category[0] | downcase | url_escape | strip | replace: ' ', '-' }})&mdash;{{ page.date | date: "%B %-d, %Y" }}

----

This week was mobile malware and to be honest it seemed like one of those topics I’ve grown up watching evolve. I have been fortunate to always stay a generation or two behind, so I generally avoid any malware as by the time I get to the platform in question the malware has already been vetted and those writing exploits are moving with the purchasing power to a new generation, but I have certainly heard of some of these malware attacks occurring. Not really relevant to the week’s topics, but it was an interesting feeling to have remembered at least a few of these occurrences (I definitely heard about mobile malware that copied the slides with the text about being cheap and the software only being $1). Also I was glad my first intro to programming courses were in Java, as it made reading for this class easier.

I did recently switch to android though and I will say I was not as informed on their execution environment as I could have been it wasn’t all that shocking having used the security features and I was pleasantly surprised. I mostly switched for certain types of applications that were more readily available, but its good knowing that the execution environment and security protocols are generally ones that I agree with. This was a nice surprise but not one that I didn’t expect, but I did find out a few things about how android applications are written and compiled that were a bit surprising.

For starters the monolithic file created out of all classes wasn’t something I really expected. This does a nice job of packaging everything into one file for easy management there, and of course the header with data about which permissions are needed make it easy for the OS to parse and ask for permissions as needed. I also noted that while the file format is still used the virtual machine itself is no longer in use. Overall it seems like a fine method, as I said already its good for management and it is also good for reducing reused strings and other resources duplicated across multiple classes. This saves space on the mobile platform, which is a concern that lessens as mobile storage grows but certainly seems practical on earlier devices.

I think another point that deserves a bit of notice that the lecturer only mentions is that mobile at this point really only has to do with a few things: 1. mobile devices are typically phone sized and will use their phone network for internet data and 2. mobile devices can be used as a phone in the first place. Otherwise the devices today are about as powerful as many of the first computers that I used (or more so) as a kid. I think its important to note because I would really like to see certain variants of mobile OS software that naturally enable the user to have root access. “Rooting” a phone shouldn’t be a hacky sounding thing, nor should I need to look for exploits or something to make this happen. I have root access on the computer I’m writing this from after all…